[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When I look at
social institutions,
I see that the basic
social institution is still
the individual human heart,
that you and I connect with
the universe through
our intuitive wisdom,
not through our analytic mind.
And it is that connection
to the source that
imbues social structures
with living truth
and with living juice.
It is up to people who are
aware of the dissonance,
because they are in tune and
connected with the universe
through that doorway
of intuitive wisdom
that can constantly be drawing
the social institutions
into line with the deeper
wisdom of the universe.
We are living in a
collective consciousness
in which there are certain
ways of seeing reality.
And our value is that we can do
two things simultaneously, work
to extricate ourselves from
it, and at the same moment
participate in it.
And that is very difficult.
And what I am suggesting to you
is what I see my own work
to be is to figure out what
qualifications, what do I need
to cultivate in myself to be
that instrument in the society?
The thing is that a lot
of us have done inner work
or connected
through whatever way
with metaphysical perspectives,
with frames of reference that
give us a sense of
something larger
than the immediate
power of the individual.
And we also have connected
with frames of reference
that allow us to
experientially know that there
are no them, there's only us.
Not only is there only us,
but if you've really gone deep
into mysticism in
the experiential way,
you realize there's only me,
or I. There's only one of it.
So that your compassion towards
other beings and other things
where they're suffering
is not awakened out
of pity and empathy as a
separate entity saying,
I'll take care of them.
So it won't come to me, I
don't want to be like that.
But it arises out of a sense
of identity with all things.
So it's not their suffering.
It's our suffering.
[MUSIC PLAYING]